README.md, before:

[![MIT license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/mashape/apistatus.svg)](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT) [![codecov.io](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/josepcrespo/oo-wordpress-nonces.svg)](https://codecov.io/github/josepcrespo/oo-wordpress-nonces)

----------

Table of contents:

- [OoWordpressNonces](#oowordpressnonces)
  * [Introduction](#introduction)
  * [Composer Package](#composer-package)
  * [Local development](#local-development)
    + [Get a copy of the project](#get-a-copy-of-the-project)
    + [Install Composer](#install-composer)
    + [Install the dependencies](#install-the-dependencies)
    + [Run the Tests](#run-the-tests)

----------

# OoWordpressNonces

## Introduction

**OoWordpressNonces** is a [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/) package for [WordPress](https://wordpress.org/) to deal with *WordPress Nonces* using an *Object Oriented Programming* approach.

It does not replaces the original [WordPress Nonces](https://codex.wordpress.org/WordPress_Nonces) system, this package is only a wrapper, using an *OOP* approach, to the original *WordPress Nonces* functions.

The code is simple, self explanatory and, it is fully documented. On the code source, each class method has a link to the original WordPress function it wraps. For more details you can view the [official WordPress documentation for Nonces](https://developer.wordpress.org/?s=nonce)

----------

## Composer Package

You can install **OoWordpressNonces** by adding this package repository specification to your project's `composer.json` file:
<pre><code class="language-javascript">{
    "repositories": [
        {
            "type": "vcs",
            "url": "https://github.com/josepcrespo/oo-wordpress-nonces"
        }
    ],
    "require": {
        "josepcrespo/oo-wordpress-nonces": "master"
    }
}
</code></pre>
and then run `composer.phar update`.

----------

## Local development

In this section, you can get the instructions to setup this project on your local machine for development and testing purposes.

----------

### Get a copy of the project

Clone the project using [Git](https://git-scm.com/):
`git clone https://github.com/josepcrespo/oo-wordpress-nonces.git`
or, download a [ZIP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zip_%28file_format%29) file with all the project files:
https://github.com/josepcrespo/oo-wordpress-nonces/archive/master.zip

### Install Composer

> **:exclamation: Before starting to install Composer:**
> - [PHP](http://www.php.net/) installed on your system is a mandatory requirement. If your development environment runs on [macOS](https://www.apple.com/macos/), I recommend install it using [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/)
> - Before starting to use *Homebrew* it is very recommended to have [Xcode](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/) installed and updated. You can [install/update Xcode](https://itunes.apple.com/es/app/xcode/id497799835?mt=12) using the [macOS App Store](https://www.appstore.com/). 
> - You also need to install the [Xcode Command Line Tools](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/features/). To install/update the *Xcode Command Line Tools*, write this command using the *Terminal.app* (after having *Xcode* installed or updated):
> `xcode-select --install`

To quickly install *Composer* in the current directory, please, refer to the [official Composer download page](https://getcomposer.org/download/) for updated instructions.

----------

### Install the dependencies

To install the defined dependencies for your project, just run the *Composer* install command into the project root directory using the *Terminal.app* (if you are using *macOS*) or with your preferred *Shell*:

`php composer.phar install`

You may want to look into [the official Composer guidelines for Installing Dependencies](https://getcomposer.org/doc/01-basic-usage.md#installing-dependencies) for more details.
> **:warning: If you used the `--filename` option on the *Composer* installation**
> - Maybe you installed your *Composer* using the `--filename` installer option, for example in this way:
> `php composer-setup.php --filename=composer`
> In that case, you should run `php composer install` in order to install the dependencies.

----------

### Run the Tests

The *Unitary Tests* of this package has been made using [PHPUnit](https://phpunit.de/).

1. First, create the *PHPUnit* configuration file executing the following command in the project root directory using the *Terminal.app* (if you are using *macOS*) or with your preferred *Shell*:

`cp phpunit.xml.dist phpunit.xml`

2. Assuming that you have all the dependencies installed using *Composer*, you can run the *Unitary Tests* by simply executing the following command in the root directory of the project:

`vendor/bin/phpunit tests`

After running the tests, you can view the tests coverage results by opening the `index.html` file created under the `tests/coverage.html/` folder.

> **:warning: You need Xdebug PHP extension enabled.**
> - *PHPUnit*'s code coverage functionality is configured by default for this project. It makes use of the *PHP_CodeCoverage* component, which in turn leverages the code coverage functionality provided by the [Xdebug](https://xdebug.org/) extension for PHP.
> - If you don't want to see code coverage or, you can not properly enable the Xdebug extension, you can remove the full `<logging>` entry present in the phpunit.xml configuration file.

Commit message:

/tests folder has been restructured for having a better organization of his content

README.md, after:

[![MIT license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/mashape/apistatus.svg)](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT) [![codecov.io](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/josepcrespo/oo-wordpress-nonces.svg)](https://codecov.io/github/josepcrespo/oo-wordpress-nonces)

----------

Table of contents:

- [OoWordpressNonces](#oowordpressnonces)
  * [Introduction](#introduction)
  * [Composer Package](#composer-package)
  * [Local development](#local-development)
    + [Get a copy of the project](#get-a-copy-of-the-project)
    + [Install Composer](#install-composer)
    + [Install the dependencies](#install-the-dependencies)
    + [Run the Tests](#run-the-tests)

----------

# OoWordpressNonces

## Introduction

**OoWordpressNonces** is a [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/) package for [WordPress](https://wordpress.org/) to deal with *WordPress Nonces* using an *Object Oriented Programming* approach.

It does not replaces the original [WordPress Nonces](https://codex.wordpress.org/WordPress_Nonces) system, this package is only a wrapper, using an *OOP* approach, to the original *WordPress Nonces* functions.

The code is simple, self explanatory and, it is fully documented. On the code source, each class method has a link to the original WordPress function it wraps. For more details you can view the [official WordPress documentation for Nonces](https://developer.wordpress.org/?s=nonce)

----------

## Composer Package

You can install **OoWordpressNonces** by adding this package repository specification to your project's `composer.json` file:
<pre><code class="language-javascript">{
    "repositories": [
        {
            "type": "vcs",
            "url": "https://github.com/josepcrespo/oo-wordpress-nonces"
        }
    ],
    "require": {
        "josepcrespo/oo-wordpress-nonces": "master"
    }
}
</code></pre>
and then run `php composer.phar update`.

----------

## Local development

In this section, you can get the instructions to setup this project on your local machine for development and testing purposes.

----------

### Get a copy of the project

Clone the project using [Git](https://git-scm.com/):
`git clone https://github.com/josepcrespo/oo-wordpress-nonces.git`
or, download a [ZIP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zip_%28file_format%29) file with all the project files:
https://github.com/josepcrespo/oo-wordpress-nonces/archive/master.zip

### Install Composer

> **:exclamation: Before starting to install Composer:**
> - [PHP](http://www.php.net/) installed on your system is a mandatory requirement. If your development environment runs on [macOS](https://www.apple.com/macos/), I recommend install it using [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/)
> - Before starting to use *Homebrew* it is very recommended to have [Xcode](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/) installed and updated. You can [install/update Xcode](https://itunes.apple.com/es/app/xcode/id497799835?mt=12) using the [macOS App Store](https://www.appstore.com/). 
> - You also need to install the [Xcode Command Line Tools](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/features/). To install/update the *Xcode Command Line Tools*, write this command using the *Terminal.app* (after having *Xcode* installed or updated):
> `xcode-select --install`

To quickly install *Composer* in the current directory, please, refer to the [official Composer download page](https://getcomposer.org/download/) for updated instructions.

----------

### Install the dependencies

To install the defined dependencies for your project, just run the *Composer* install command into the project root directory using the *Terminal.app* (if you are using *macOS*) or with your preferred *Shell*:

`php composer.phar install`

You may want to look into [the official Composer guidelines for Installing Dependencies](https://getcomposer.org/doc/01-basic-usage.md#installing-dependencies) for more details.
> **:warning: If you used the `--filename` option on the *Composer* installation**
> - Maybe you installed your *Composer* using the `--filename` installer option, for example in this way:
> `php composer-setup.php --filename=composer`
> In that case, you should run `composer install` in order to install the dependencies.

----------

### Run the Tests

The *Unitary Tests* of this package has been made using [PHPUnit](https://phpunit.de/).

1. First, create the *PHPUnit* configuration file executing the following command in the project root directory using the *Terminal.app* (if you are using *macOS*) or with your preferred *Shell*:

`cp phpunit.xml.dist phpunit.xml`

2. Assuming that you have all the dependencies installed using *Composer*, you can run the *Unitary Tests* by simply executing the following command in the root directory of the project:

`vendor/bin/phpunit tests`

After running the tests, you can view the tests coverage results by opening the `index.html` file created under the `tests/coverage.html/` folder.

> **:warning: If *PHPUnit* throws an error message saying that it can not find some *Class* used in the tests
> - Use the following *Composer*'s command and, then re-run the tests.
> `php composer.phar dump-autoload`

> **:warning: You need Xdebug PHP extension enabled.**
> - *PHPUnit*'s code coverage functionality is configured by default for this project. It makes use of the *PHP_CodeCoverage* component, which in turn leverages the code coverage functionality provided by the [Xdebug](https://xdebug.org/) extension for PHP.
> - If you don't want to see code coverage or, you can not properly enable the Xdebug extension, you can remove the full `<logging>` entry present in the phpunit.xml configuration file.
